# Technique C39: Using the CSS prefers-reduced-motion query to prevent motion

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.3.3: Animation from Interactions](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/animation-from-interactions) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to CSS which causes motion that is triggered by user interactions.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to allow users to prevent animations (including motion animations) from being displayed on web pages, via the use of the prefers-reduced-motion CSS Media Query.

Some users experience distraction or nausea from animated content. For example, if scrolling a page causes elements to move (other than the essential movement associated with scrolling the content, which is under the user's control) it can trigger vestibular disorders.

Media queries that selectively enable/disable CSS-driven animations based on operating system or user agent preferences allow users to avoid those triggers.

The understanding document for [Animation from Interactions](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/animation-from-interactions.html#resources) includes links for changing the 'reduced motion' setting.

## Examples

### Example 1: prefers-reduced-motion CSS Media Query

Users can indicate their motion preference for interfaces in their system and the prefers-reduced-motion CSS Media Query will respect that choice. CSS can then be applied to disable that motion for users that request it.

```css
/* CSS for the motion effect */

@media (prefers-reduced-motion: reduce) {
  /* CSS to disable motion goes here */
}
```

[Working example of 'prefers-reduced-motion' CSS Media Query](../../working-examples/css-reduced-motion-query/)

Alternatively, it is possible to take the inverse approach: define static styles, and then include a media query that only applies when the user has not set the reduced motion preference.

```css
/* "Static" CSS styles */

@media (prefers-reduced-motion: no-preference) {
  /* CSS for the motion effect goes here */
}
```

## Tests

### Procedure

For each interactive element that triggers a motion animation as a result of a user interaction:

1. Enable the reduced motion setting in your system;
2. Check that the motion animation is essential;
3. Check that the motion animation is suppressed.

### Expected Results

* #2 or #3 is true.
