# Technique C41: Creating a strong focus indicator within the component

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.4.13: Focus Appearance](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/focus-appearance) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to CSS.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to create a highly visible focus indicator that has sufficient contrast against the internal background color of a component.

## Examples

The examples demonstrate a simple implementation where a focus styles is applied to blue background. As the indicator is contained inside the component, you can be sure it maintains contrast whatever background the component is placed on

### Example 1: Inner border

#### HTML

```html
<button type="button">Example button</button>
```

#### CSS

CSS to provide the indicator. It narrows the scope to buttons within the main element.

```css
button { 
  background-color: #236AB8; /* medium-dark blue */
  color: white;
  padding: 10px;
}

main button:focus { 
  outline: 3px #fff5be solid; /* light yellow */
  outline-offset: -4px;
}
```

## Related Resources

No endorsement implied.

* [The :focus pseudo-class on the Mozilla Developer Network](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:focus)
* [The :focus-visible pseudo-class on the Mozilla Developer Network](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/:focus-visible)

## Related Techniques

* [G195: Using an author-supplied, visible focus indicator](../general/G195)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each focusable user interface component:

1. Place keyboard focus on each focusable user interface element on the page using the keyboard.
2. Check that the focus indicator area is at least the size of a 2 CSS px border around the component.
3. Check that the change of contrast of the indicator between focused and unfocused states has a ratio of 4.5:1 for the minimum focus indicator area.

### Expected Results

* #2 and #3 are true.

The required change of contrast for [Focus Appearance (Minimum)](focus-not-obscured-minimum) is 3:1, this technique goes slightly beyond the minimum requirement.
