# Technique F10: Failure of Success Criterion 2.1.2 and Conformance Requirement 5 due to combining multiple content formats in a way
                    that traps users inside one format type

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.1.2: No Keyboard Trap](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/no-keyboard-trap) (Failure).

This failure applies when content creates a situation where the user can enter the content using the keyboard, but cannot exit the content using the keyboard.

## Description

When content includes multiple formats, one or more user agents or plug-ins are often needed in order to successfully present the content to users. For example, a page that includes HTML, SVG, SMIL and XForms may require a browser to load as many as three different plug-ins in order for a user to successfully interact with the content. Some plug-ins create a common situation in which the keyboard focus can become "stuck" in a plug-in, leaving a keyboard-only user with no way to return to the other content.

## Examples

* A plug-in traps the user:A user tabs into a plug-in and is unable to return to content outside the plug-in content with the keyboard. The user has to restart their browser in order to regain control and navigate to a new page and is unable to access any content that appears beyond the plug-in content.

## Related Techniques

* [G21: Ensuring that users are not trapped in content](../general/G21)
* [SCR20: Using both keyboard and other device-specific functions](../client-side-script/SCR20)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Using a keyboard, navigate through the content.
2. Check to see that the keyboard focus is not "trapped" and it is possible to move keyboard focus out of the plug-in content without closing the user agent or restarting the system.

### Expected Results

* If the keyboard focus becomes "trapped," then this failure condition applies and content fails the success criterion and conformance requirement 5.
