# Technique F105: Failure of Success Criterion 2.5.1 due to providing functionality via a path-based gesture without simple pointer alternative

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.5.1: Pointer Gestures](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/pointer-gestures) (Failure).

This failure applies to all technologies that include interactive controls that can be triggered using a pointer.

## Description

The objective of this Failure is to describe situations where authors have implemented a function that is operated via a path-based gesture, and no alternative ways of operating this function via simple pointer gestures exist.

If you did not create the content and functionality you can find path-based gestures by exploring the content on a touch screen, or checking the page code for the existence of specific event handlers such as touchstart or touchend. See the [Understanding document for Pointer Gestures](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/pointer-gestures.html) for more on the path-based gestures.

Note: For functionality implemented with a path-based gesture, the possibility of also operating it via the keyboard is beneficial (and may serve to meet [Success Criterion 2.1.1 Keyboard](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/keyboard)). The point of Success Criterion 2.5.1, however, is to ensure that pointer users who on many devices will have no keyboard available, have alternative ways of operating the function via simple pointer input.

## Examples

### Example 1

* A web application implements an interface where drawing a "Z" on the screen undoes the last action. There is no other way to undo the action.
* A swipe-to-reveal control displays a set of options when swiping an item to the left, and another set of options when swiping an item to the right. One or more of these options are not available after the item is first opened with a single tap or click.

## Related Techniques

* [F101: Failure of Success Criterion 2.5.2 due to activating a control on the down-event](../failures/F101).
* [G216: Providing single point activation for a control slider](../general/G216)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each part of the content that implements a function that can be activated by a path-based gesture:

1. Check that controls are available through which the same function can be carried out via simple taps or clicks.

### Expected Results

* If check #1 is false then the content fails the Success Criterion.
