# Technique F106: Failure due to inability to deactivate motion actuation

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.5.4: Motion Actuation](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/motion-actuation) (Failure).

This failure applies to content using technologies that can support the detection of device or user motion such as shaking or tilting and use these motions as a means of input.

## Description

This describes the failure condition that results when motion actuation can not be deactivated. People who may accidentally activate sensors due to tremors or other motor impairments need the ability to turn off motion actuation to prevent such accidental triggering of functions.

Note

The type of motion covered by the [Motion Actuation Success Criterion](motion-actuation) does not relate to the movement of users through space as registered by geolocation sensors or beacons, or events observed by the device other than intentional gesturing by the user. It also does not cover indirect motion associated with operating a keyboard, pointer, or assistive technology.

## Examples

### Example 1: Motion Activated Slider

A slider which uses tilting motion to increase or decrease the value of an input, with no mechanism to deactivate the motion detection.

[Working example of a motion activated slider that can not be deactivated](../../working-examples/device-motion-sensor-input-failure/)

## Related Techniques

* [G213: Provide conventional controls and an application setting for motion activated input](../general/G213)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each function that is triggered by a motion sensor:

1. Check if the use of a motion sensor is essential or required to make the function accessibility supported.
2. Check if there is a user setting which disables the motion detection.

### Expected Results

* If #1 and 2 are false then the control fails this success criterion.
