# Technique F110: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.11 Focus Not Obscured (Minimum) due to a sticky footer or header completely hiding focused elements

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.4.11: Focus Not Obscured (Minimum)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/focus-not-obscured-minimum) (Failure).

This failure applies to content using any technology which supports keyboard interfaces.

## Description

The objective of this failure is to avoid situations in which people using a keyboard interface (e.g. tabbing through links and controls) cannot see where the indicator is due to other authored content.

Any 'sticky' content that moves with the viewport can potentially obscure other elements on the page, including controls the user may tab to.

## Examples

### Example 1: Sticky footer

A web page has a sticky footer, an element that stays visible at the bottom of the viewport as the user scrolls the page. The footer is tall enough to completely cover the element in focus as a user tabs down the page.

[Failure example of sticky footer that completely cover elements in focus as a user tabs down the page](../../working-examples/sticky-elements-hiding-focused-elements/sticky-footer.html).

### Example 2: Sticky header

A web page has a sticky header, an element that stays visible at the top of the viewport as the user scrolls the page. The header is tall enough to completely cover the element in focus as a user tabs up the page.

[Failure example of sticky header that completely cover elements in focus as a user tabs up the page](../../working-examples/sticky-elements-hiding-focused-elements/sticky-header.html).

## Tests

### Procedure

Tab through the links and controls on the page. Both progressing down through the page, and back up:

1. Check whether the focused element is completely obscured by other content

### Expected Results

* If #1 is true, then this failure condition applies and the content fails the Success Criterion.
