# Technique F111: Failure of Success Criteria 1.3.1, 2.5.3, and 4.1.2 due to a control with visible label text but no accessible name

## About this Technique

This technique relates to:

* [1.3.1: Info and Relationships](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/info-and-relationships) (Failure)
* [2.5.3: Label in Name](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/label-in-name) (Failure)
* [4.1.2: Name, Role, Value](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/name-role-value) (Failure)

This failure applies to all technologies that include interactive controls (such as links or form inputs).

## Description

The objective of this Failure is to describe situations where speech input users cannot reliably speak the name of a control because although it has a visible label, it lacks an accessible name.

When speech input users interact with a web page, they usually speak a command followed by the reference to some visible label (like the text in a button or a link, or the text labelling some input). If the control lacks an accessible name, speech users won't be able to activate the control using its visible label.

## Examples

### Example 1: A text input with a visible label, but without an accessible name

The text input is preceded by a visible text label "Enter name", but the text is not marked up as a <label> for the input, and there is no alternative way (e.g., aria-label) to provide the input with an accessible name at all.

```html
<p>Enter name</p>
					<input type="text">
```

### Example 2: A text input with a visible label and aria-labelledby pointing to a non-existent id

The text input is preceded by a visible text label "Enter name". The text's container has an id of nameEntry, but the input has an aria-labelledby referencing a non-existent name-entry id. As a result, the input lacks an accessible name altogether.

```html
<p id="nameEntry">Enter name</p>
					<input type="text" aria-labelledby="name-entry" >
```

## Related Techniques

* [F96: Failure due to the accessible name not containing the visible label text](../failures/F96)
* [G131: Providing descriptive labels](../general/G131)
* [ARIA7: Using aria-labelledby for link purpose](../aria/ARIA7)
* [ARIA8: Using aria-label for link purpose](../aria/ARIA8)
* [ARIA9: Using aria-labelledby to concatenate a label from several text nodes](../aria/ARIA9)
* [ARIA14: Using aria-label to provide an accessible name where a visible label cannot be used](../aria/ARIA14)
* [ARIA16: Using aria-labelledby to provide a name for user interface controls](../aria/ARIA16)
* [SCR30: Using scripts to change the link text](../client-side-script/SCR30)

## Tests

### Procedure

For all controls with a visible label (e.g., link text, button text, programmatically linked label, images in links or buttons with text, etc.), check that:

1. The control has a visible text label.
2. The control has an accessible name.
3. The accessible name contains the text that appears as the visible label.

### Expected Results

* If check #1 is false, the Success Criterion does not apply.
* If check #1 is true, but checks #2 and/or #3 are false, the content fails the Success Criterion.
* If all checks are true, the content passes the Success Criterion.
