# Technique F16: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.2 due to including scrolling content where movement is not essential to the activity without also including a mechanism to pause and restart the content

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.2.2: Pause, Stop, Hide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/pause-stop-hide) (Failure).

This failure applies to all technologies that support visual movement or scrolling.

## Description

In this failure technique, there is moving or scrolling content that cannot be paused and resumed by users. In this case, some users with low vision or cognitive disabilities will not be able to perceive the content.

## Examples

* A page has a scrolling news ticker without a mechanism to pause it. Some users are unable to read the scrolling content.

## Related Techniques

* [G4: Allowing the content to be paused and restarted from where it was paused](../general/G4)

## Tests

### Procedure

On a page with moving or scrolling content,

1. Check that a mechanism is provided in the web page or user agent to pause moving or scrolling content.
2. Use the pause mechanism to pause the moving or scrolling content.
3. Check that the moving or scrolling has stopped and does not restart by itself.
4. Check that a mechanism is provided in the web page or user agent to restart the paused content.
5. Use the restart mechanism provided to restart the moving content.
6. Check that the movement or scrolling has resumed from the point where it was stopped.

### Expected Results

* If step #1, step #3, step #4, or step #6 are false, then the content fails the success criterion.
