# Technique F24: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.3, 1.4.6 and 1.4.8 due to specifying foreground colors without
      specifying background colors or vice versa

## About this Technique

This technique relates to:

* [1.4.3: Contrast (Minimum)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/contrast-minimum) (Failure)
* [1.4.6: Contrast (Enhanced)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/contrast-enhanced) (Failure)
* [1.4.8: Visual Presentation](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/visual-presentation) (Failure)

This failure applies to all technologies that allow user agents to control foreground and background colors through personal stylesheets or other means.

## Description

Users with vision loss or cognitive, language and learning challenges often prefer specific foreground and background color combinations. In some cases, individuals with low vision will find it much easier to see a web page that has white text on a black background, and they may have set their user agent to present this contrast. Many user agents make it possible for users to choose a preference about the foreground or background colors they would like to see without overriding all author-specified styles. This makes it possible for users to view pages where colors have not been specified by the author in their preferred color combination.

Unless an author specifies both foreground and background colors, then they (the author) can no longer guarantee that the user will get a contrast that meets the contrast requirements. If, for example, the author specifies, that text should be grey, then it may override the settings of the user agent and render a page that has grey text (specified by the author) on a light grey background (that was set by the user in their user agent). This principle also works in reverse. If the author forces the background to be white, then the white background specified by the author could be similar in color to the text color preference expressed by the user in their user agent settings, thus rendering the page unusable to the user. Because an author can not predict how a user may have configured their preferences, if the author specifies a foreground text color then they should also specify a background color which has sufficient contrast with the foreground and vice versa.

It is not necessary that the foreground and background colors both be defined on the same CSS rule. Since CSS color properties inherit from ancestor elements, it is sufficient if both foreground and background colors are defined either directly or through inheritance by the time that color is applied to a given element.

Note

Best practice is to include all states of the text. For example, text, link text, visited link text, link text with hover and keyboard focus, etc.

## Examples

### Example 1: Specifying only background color with CSS

In the example below the background color is defined on the CSS stylesheet, however the foreground color is not defined. Therefore, the example fails the Success Criterion.

```html
<!doctype>
  <html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>Setting the canvas background</title>
    <style>
      body {background-color:white}
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <p>My background is white.</p>
  </body>
</html>
```

### Example 2: Specifying only foreground color with CSS

In the example below the foreground color is defined on the CSS stylesheet, however the background color is not defined. Therefore, the example fails the Success Criterion.

```html
<!doctype>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Setting the canvas foreground</title>
  <style>
    body {color:white}
  </style>
</head>
<body>
  <p>My foreground is white.</p>
</body>
</html>
```

### Example 3: Specifying foreground color of link text with CSS

In the example below the link text (foreground) color is defined on the body element. However, the background color is not defined. Therefore, the example fails the Success Criterion.

```html
<!doctype>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <title>A study of population dynamics</TITLE>
  <style>
    a:link { color: red }
    a:visited { color: maroon }
    a:active { color: fuchsia }
</style>
</head>
<body>
 <p>... document body... <a href="foo.htm">Foo</a></p>
</body>
</html>
```

## Related Resources

No endorsement implied.

* [CSS Cascading and Inheritance Level 4](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-cascade-4/)

## Related Techniques

* [C23: Specifying text and background colors of secondary content such as banners, features and navigation in CSS while not specifying text and background colors of the main content](../css/C23)
* [C25: Specifying borders and layout in CSS to delineate areas of a web page while not specifying text and text-background colors](../css/C25)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Examine the code of the web page.
2. Check to see if an author-specified foreground color is present
3. Check to see if an author-specified background color is present

Note

Color and background color may be specified at any level in the cascade of preceding selectors, by external stylesheets or through inheritance rules.

Background color may also be specified using a background image with the CSS property 'background-image' or with the CSS property 'background' (with the URI of the image, e.g., 'background: url("images/bg.gif")'). With background images, it is still necessary to specify a background color, because users may have images turned off in their browser. But the background image and the background color need to be checked.

### Expected Results

If check #2 is true but step #3 is false, or if check #3 is true but step #2 is false then this failure condition applies and content fails these Success Criteria.
