# Technique F38: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to not marking up decorative images in HTML in a way that allows assistive technology to ignore them

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [1.1.1: Non-text Content](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/non-text-content) (Failure).

This failure applies to HTML.

## Description

This describes a failure condition for text alternatives for images that should be ignored by AT. If there is no alt attribute at all assistive technologies are not able to ignore the non-text content. The alt attribute must be provided and have a null value (i.e., alt="" ) to avoid a failure of this Success Criterion.

This describes a failure condition for text alternatives for images that should be ignored by assistive technology (AT). If an image has the attribute role="presentation", it will be ignored by AT. However, if it does not have role="presentation", and if there is no alt attribute at all assistive technologies are not able to ignore the image. For decorative images which need to be ignored by AT, either role="presentation" must be used or the alt attribute must be provided and have a null value (i.e., alt="") to avoid a failure of this Success Criterion.

## Examples

* Decorative images that have no alt attribute and no role attribute

## Tests

### Procedure

For any img element that is used for purely decorative content:

1. Check whether the element has no role attribute or has a role attribute value that is not presentation.
2. Check whether the element has no alt attribute or has an alt attribute with a value that is not null.

### Expected Results

* If check #1 and #2 are true, this failure condition applies and content fails the Success Criterion.
