# Technique F58: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1 due to using server-side techniques to automatically
                    redirect pages after a time-out

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.2.1: Timing Adjustable](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/timing-adjustable) (Failure).

## Description

Server-side scripting languages allow developers to set the non-standard HTTP header "Refresh" with a time-out (in seconds) and a URI to which the browser is redirected after the specified time-out. If the time interval is too short, people who are blind will not have enough time to make their screen readers read the page before the page refreshes unexpectedly and causes the screen reader to begin reading at the top. Sighted users may also be disoriented by the unexpected refresh.

The HTTP header that is set is Refresh: {time in seconds}; url={URI of new location}. It is also possible to omit the URI and obtain a periodically refreshing page, which causes the same problem. The HTTP header that is set is Refresh: {time in seconds}.

## Examples

### Example 1

The following example is a failure because a timed server-side redirect is implemented in Java Servlets or JavaServer Pages (JSP).

```java
public void doGet (HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response)
   throws IOException, ServletException {
      response.setContentType("text/html");
PrintWriter out = response.getWriter();
response.setHeader("Refresh", "10; URL=TargetPage.html");
out.println("<!DOCTYPE html>");
out.println("<html><head><title>Redirect</title></head><body>");
out.println("<p>This page will redirect you in 10 seconds.</p>");
out.println("</body></html>");
}
```

## Related Resources

No endorsement implied.

* [RFC 9110: HTTP Semantics 15.4. Redirection 3xx](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9110#name-redirection-3xx)

## Related Techniques

* [F40: Failure due to using meta redirect with a time limit](../failures/F40)
* [F41: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1, 2.2.4, and 3.2.5 due to using meta refresh to reload the page](../failures/F41)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Check to see if the web page automatically redirects to another page after some period of time without the user taking any action.
2. Check if the page qualifies for Real-time or Essential Exceptions in [Success Criterion 2.2.1 Timing Adjustable](/TR/WCAG/#timing-adjustable).
3. Check if the user is provided an opportunity to turn off, extend, or adjust the timing of the page refresh.

### Expected Results

* If check #1 is true and checks #2-3 are false then this failure condition applies and content fails the Success Criterion.
