# Technique F67: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.2.1 due to providing long descriptions for non-text content that does not serve the same purpose or does not present the same information

## About this Technique

This technique relates to:

* [1.1.1: Non-text Content](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/non-text-content) (Failure)
* [1.2.1: Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/audio-only-and-video-only-prerecorded) (Failure)

This failure applies to all technologies.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to describe the failure that occurs when the long description for non-text content does not serve the same purpose or does not present the same information as the non-text content. This can cause problems for people who cannot interpret the non-text content because they rely on the long description to provide the necessary information conveyed by the non-text content. Without a long description that provides complete information, a person may not be able to comprehend or interact with the web page.

## Examples

* An image showing the locations of venues for events at the Olympic Games displayed on a street map. The image also contains an icon for each type of sporting event held at each venue. The long description states, "Map showing the location of each Olympic venue. Skating, hockey and curling are held at the Winter Park Ice Arena, Downhill skiing and jumping are held at Snow Mountain, Gymnastics is held at the JumpUp Arena, Cross Country Skiing is held at the Kilometer Forest". While this description provides useful information, it does not convey the same information as the image because it provides no specific location information such as the address or the distance of each location from some fixed point. Note that long descriptions do not always need to be in prose form; sometimes the information may best be presented in a table or other alternate format.

## Related Techniques

* [G73: Providing a long description in another location with a link to it that is immediately adjacent to the non-text content](../general/G73)
* [G74: Providing a long description in text near the non-text content, with a reference to the location of the long description in the short description](../general/G74)
* [F13: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.4.1 due to having a text alternative that does not include information that is conveyed by color differences in the image](../failures/F13)

## Tests

### Procedure

For all non-text content that requires a long description

1. Check that the long description serves the same purpose or presents the same information as the non-text content.

### Expected Results

* If check #1 is false, then this failure condition applies and the content fails this Success Criterion.
