# Technique F68: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.2 due to a user interface control not having a programmatically determined name

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [4.1.2: Name, Role, Value](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/name-role-value) (Failure).

This failure applies to HTML controls.

## Description

This failure describes a problem that occurs when a form control does not have a name exposed to assistive technologies. The result is that some users will not be able to identify the purpose of the form control. The name can be provided in multiple ways, including the label element. Other options include use of the title attribute and aria-label which are used to directly provide text that is used for the accessibility name or aria-labelledby which indicates an association with other text on a page that is providing the name. Button controls can have a name assigned in other ways, as indicated below, but in certain situations may require use of label, title, aria-label, or aria-labelledby.

Note

Elements that can use an explicitly-associated label element are:

* input
* textarea
* select

The label element is not used for the following because labels for these elements are provided via the value attribute (for Submit and Reset buttons), the alt attribute (for image buttons), or element content itself (button):

* Submit and Reset buttons (<input type="submit"> or <input type="reset">)
* Image buttons (<input type="image">)
* Hidden input fields (<input type="hidden">)
* Buttons (button elements or <input type="button">)

## Examples

### Example 1

The following example demonstrates a form that visually presents labels for form controls, but does not use the label element to associate them with their controls. The code example below is a failure because assistive technology may not be able to determine which label goes with which control.

```html
<form>
  First name:
  <input type="text" name="firstname">
  <br>
  Last name: 
  <input type="text" name="lastname">
  <br>
  I have a dog <input type="checkbox" name="pet" value="dog">
  I have a cat <input type="checkbox" name="pet" value="cat">
</form>
```

### Example 2

In the following code example, label elements are present, but they are not programmatically linked to the corresponding input controls and may therefore not be properly determined by assistive technology.

```html
<form> 
  <p> 
    <label>First Name</label>
    <input type="text" name="firstname"> 
    <label>Last Name</label> 
    <input type="text" name="lastname"> 
  </p> 
</form>
```

### Example 3

The search text box in the following code example does not have a programmatically determinable name. The name can be supplied with any of the approaches mentioned above.

```html
<input type="text" value="Type your search here">
<input type="submit" value="Search">
```

## Related Resources

No endorsement implied.

* [Accessible Rich Internet Applications (WAI-ARIA), Accessible Name Calculation](https://www.w3.org/TR/wai-aria/#namecalculation)

## Related Techniques

* [H44: Using label elements to associate text labels with form controls](../html/H44)
* [H65: Using the title attribute to identify form controls when the label element cannot be used](../html/H65)
* [G167: Using an adjacent button to label the purpose of a field](../general/G167)
* [ARIA6: Using aria-label to provide labels for objects](../aria/ARIA6)
* [ARIA9: Using aria-labelledby to concatenate a label from several text nodes](../aria/ARIA9)
* [ARIA16: Using aria-labelledby to provide a name for user interface controls](../aria/ARIA16)
* [ARIA14: Using aria-label to provide an accessible name where a visible label cannot be used](../aria/ARIA14)

## Tests

### Procedure

For all input, textarea, and select elements in the web page (except inputs of type hidden, submit, reset, or button:

1. Check that each element has a programmatically determined name using one of the following ways:

### Expected Results

* If all options of check #1 are false, then this failure condition applies and the content fails the Success Criteria.
