# Technique F7: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.2 due to an object or applet
                    that has blinking content without a mechanism to pause the content that blinks
                    for more than five seconds

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.2.2: Pause, Stop, Hide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/pause-stop-hide) (Failure).

This failure applies to technologies that support blinking content within an object, applet, or a plug-in.

## Description

When content that is rendered by a plug-in or contained in an applet blinks, there may be no way for the user agent to pause the blinking. If neither the plug-in, applet, nor the content itself provides a mechanism to pause the content, the user may not have sufficient time to read the content between blinks or it may be so distracting that the user will not be able to read other content on the page.

## Examples

* An applet displays an advertisement on a news site. The applet blinks key words in the advertisement in order to call the user's attention to it. The blinking cannot be paused through any user agent settings and the applet does not provide a mechanism to stop it.

## Related Techniques

* [SCR22: Using scripts to control blinking and stop it in five seconds or less](../client-side-script/SCR22)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each page that has blinking content in a plugin or applet:

1. Determine if the content continues to blink for longer than 5 seconds.
2. Determine if there is a means to pause the blinking content.

### Expected Results

* If check #1 is true and check #2 is false, the content fails the success criterion.
