# Technique F74: Failure of  Success Criterion 1.2.2 and 1.2.8 due to not labeling a synchronized media alternative to text as an alternative

## About this Technique

This technique relates to:

* [1.2.2: Captions (Prerecorded)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/captions-prerecorded) (Failure)
* [1.2.8: Media Alternative (Prerecorded)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/media-alternative-prerecorded) (Failure)

This failure applies to pages that provide synchronized media alternatives to text.

## Description

The objective of this failure is to avoid situations in which synchronized media alternatives are not labeled with the text for which they are alternatives. Synchronized media alternatives provide enhanced access to users for whom synchronized media is a more effective format than text. Since they are alternatives to text, they do not need themselves to have redundant text alternatives. However, they need to be clearly labeled with the text for which they substitute, so users can find them and so users who normally expect text alternatives to synchronized media know not to look for them.

## Examples

### Example 1: Synchronized media alternatives provided elsewhere on page

A page with instructions to complete a tax form provides a prose description of the fields to complete, data to provide, etc. Additionally, a synchronized media alternative provides spoken instructions, with video of a person completing the section being discussed in the audio. Although both versions are provided on the page, the synchronized media version is provided elsewhere on the page and is not clearly labeled with the part of the text for which it is a substitute. This makes it difficult for users encountering the text to find it, and users encountering the video do not know where its text alternative is.

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Check pages that provide synchronized media alternatives to text.
2. Check that synchronized media is clearly labeled with the text for which it is an alternative.

### Expected Results

* If check #2 is false, then this failure condition applies and the content fails these Success Criteria.
