# Technique G101: Providing the definition of a word or phrase used in an unusual or restricted way

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [3.1.3: Unusual Words](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/unusual-words) (Sufficient using a more specific technique).

This technique applies to any technology containing text.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to provide a definition for any word used in an unusual or restricted way.

A word is used in an unusual or restricted way when:

* dictionaries give several definitions of the word but one specific definition must be used in order to understand the content;
* a specific definition must be used in order to understand the content and dictionaries list that definition as rare, archaic, obsolete, etc.;
* the author creates a new definition that must be used in order to understand the content.

This technique can also be used to provide definitions for jargon, that is, the specialized vocabulary used in a particular profession or technical field and understood by people in that field but not by people outside the field.

The technique can also be used to define idiomatic expressions. For example, speakers of a language who live in a particular region may use idiomatic expressions that are accepted by everyone in the region but not by people from other regions where the same language is spoken.

## Examples

### Example 1: A term used in a restricted way

The word "technology" is widely used to cover everything from the stone tools used by early humans to contemporary digital devices such as cell phones. But in WCAG 2.0, the word technology is used in a more restricted way: it means a mechanism for encoding instructions to be rendered, played or executed by user agents, including markup languages, data formats, and programming languages used in producing and delivering web content.

### Example 2: A word used according to an obsolete definition

The word "ether" is defined as a substance that filled interplanetary space: "He believed that sound traveled through the ether."

### Example 3: Jargon

The word "driver" is defined as software that contains specific instructions for a printer: "It may be necessary to update the driver for your printer."

### Example 4: An idiomatic expression

Some people say "spill the beans" when they mean "reveal a secret", e.g., "In the police station, Joe spilled the beans about the plot to kidnap the prime minister."

### Example 5: An idiomatic expression in Japanese

This example uses parentheses to provide the definition of an idiomatic expression in Japanese. The phrase in Japanese says that "he throws a spoon." It means that there was nothing he can do and finally he gives up.

さじを投げる（どうすることもできなくなり、あきらめること）。

### Example 6: An unfamiliar adopted foreign word in English

Users may not understand the meaning of an unfamiliar word adopted from another language: "We need to leave town pronto (quickly).

### Example 7: Unfamiliar adopted words in Japanese

In Japanese, Katakana is used for adopted foreign words. If words are unfamiliar to users, provide the meaning or translation so that users can understand them.

アクセシビリティ（高齢者・障害者を含む全ての人が利用できること）は、Webサイトに不可欠である。

English translation: "Accessibility" (it can be accessed by all users including elderly people and people with disabilities) is an essential aspect of the Websites.

レイアウトテーブルとCSSの併用をハイブリッド（複合型）という。

English translation: Using both layout table and CSS is called "hybrid" (combination of multiple forms).

## Related Techniques

* [G55: Linking to definitions](../general/G55)
* [G62: Providing a glossary](../general/G62)
* [G70: Providing a function to search an online dictionary](../general/G70)
* [G112: Using inline definitions](../general/G112)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each word or phrase used in an unusual or restricted way:

1. Check that a definition is provided for the word or phrase

### Expected Results

* Check #1 is true.
