# Technique G108: Using markup features to expose the name and role, allow user-settable properties to be directly set, and provide notification of changes

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [4.1.2: Name, Role, Value](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/name-role-value) (Sufficient using a more specific technique).

This technique applies to markup technologies where it is possible to expose the name and role, allow user-settable properties to be directly set, and provide notification of changes.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to allow assistive technology to understand web content so that it can convey equivalent information to the user through an alternate user interface and allow them to operate controls through the AT.

This technique involves using standard, documented and supported features to expose these properties to AT. It relies on the fact that these standard controls in standard browsers meet the requirements.

For HTML these assumptions are good. They may also be appropriate for some other technologies.

Even when the components support accessibility, it is essential that some information be provided by the author. For example, a control may have the ability to provide a name but the author still has to provide the name. The role attribute however may already be provided since it is a standard component with a fixed role.

## Examples

### Example 1

Example 1: A web page written in HTML uses standard form controls, and identifies the form control using the title attribute. The user agent makes information about these controls, including the name, available to assistive technology through the DOM and through a platform-specific Accessibility API.

## Related Techniques

* [G135: Using the accessibility API features of a technology to expose names and … notification of changes](../general/G135)
* [H44: Using label elements to associate text labels with form controls](../html/H44)
* [H88: Using HTML according to spec](../html/H88)
* [H91: Using HTML form controls and links](../html/H91)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Visually inspect the markup or use a tool.
2. Check that proper markup is used such that the name and role, for each user interface component can be determined.
3. Check that proper markup is used such that the user interface components that accept user input can all be operated from AT.

### Expected Results

* Step #2 and #3 are both true for each user interface component

## Test Rules

The following are Test Rules related to this Technique. It is not necessary to use these particular Test Rules to check for conformance with WCAG, but they are defined and approved test methods. For information on using Test Rules, see [Understanding Test Rules for WCAG Success Criteria](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/understanding-act-rules.html).

* [Role attribute has valid value](/WAI/standards-guidelines/act/rules/674b10/)
