# Technique G111: Using color and pattern

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [1.4.1: Use of Color](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/use-of-color) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to all technologies that support images.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to ensure that when color differences are used to convey information within non-text content, patterns are included to convey the same information in a manner that does not depend on color.

## Examples

### Example 1

A real estate site provides a bar chart of average housing prices in several regions of the United States. The bar for each region is displayed with a different solid color and a different pattern. The legend uses the same colors and patterns to identify each bar.

### Example 2

An on-line map of a transportation system displays each route in a different color. The stops on each route are marked with a distinctive icon such as a diamond, square, or circle to help differentiate each route.

### Example 3

A flow chart describes a set of iterative steps to complete a process. It uses dashed, arrowed lines with a green background to point to the next step in the process when the specified condition passes. It uses dotted arrowed lines with a red background to point to the next step in the process when the specified condition fails.

### Example 4

The content includes an interactive game. The game pieces for the 4 players are distinguished from one another using both color and pattern.

## Related Techniques

* [G14: Ensuring that information conveyed by color differences is also available in text](../general/G14)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each image within the web page that use color differences to convey information:

1. Check that all information that is conveyed using color is also conveyed using patterns that do not rely on color.

### Expected Results

* Check #1 is true.
