# Technique G112: Using inline definitions

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [3.1.3: Unusual Words](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/unusual-words) (Sufficient using a more specific technique when used with [G101: Providing the definition of a word or phrase used in an unusual or restricted way](../general/G101)).

This technique applies to any technology containing text.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to provide a definition in context for any word used in an unusual or restricted way. The definition is provided in the text, either just before or just after the word is used. The definition may be included in the same sentence as the word that is being defined, or in a separate sentence.

## Examples

### Example 1: Ether

He believed that sound traveled through the ether, which was thought to be a substance that filled interplanetary space.

### Example 2: Driver

It may be necessary to update the driver for your printer (the driver is software that contains specific instructions for your printer).

### Example 3: W3C key words

Definition: The key words "must", "must not", "required", "shall", "shall not", "should", "should not", "recommended", "may", and "optional" in this specification are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119).

### Example 4: A Japanese idiomatic expression defined in context

This example uses parentheses to provide the definition of an idiomatic expression in Japanese. The phrase in Japanese says that "he throws a spoon." It means that there was nothing he can do and finally he gives up.

さじを投げる（どうすることもできなくなり、あきらめること）。

## Related Techniques

* [G55: Linking to definitions](../general/G55)
* [G62: Providing a glossary](../general/G62)
* [G70: Providing a function to search an online dictionary](../general/G70)
* [H54: Using the dfn element to identify the defining instance of a word](../html/H54)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each word or phrase used in an unusual or restricted way:

1. Check that the word is defined in text either before or after the first occurrence of the word.

### Expected Results

* Check #1 is true.
