# Technique G120: Providing the pronunciation immediately following the word

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [3.1.6: Pronunciation](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/pronunciation) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to all technologies.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to make the pronunciation of a word available by providing the pronunciation after the word at least the first time it occurs within a web page.

When a web page contains words with the same spelling but different pronunciations, this technique is not appropriate for providing the pronunciation unless it is provided for each instance.

This technique is applied to the first occurrence of an abbreviation in a web page. When combining multiple resources into a single web page, the abbreviation would be expanded at the beginning of each resource. In this case, however, using a different technique for providing the expanded form may be more appropriate.

## Examples

### Example 1

In the following example of Japanese text, the information giving the pronunciation in Han characters (Kanji) is rendered in parentheses immediately following the text.

```html
<p>慶應大学 (けいおうだいがく)</p>
```

## Related Techniques

* [G121: Linking to pronunciations](../general/G121)
* [G163: Using standard diacritical marks that can be turned off](../general/G163)
* [H62: Using the ruby element](../html/H62)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each word that requires pronunciation information:

1. Search for the first use of that word in the web page.
2. Check that the first use is immediately followed by the pronunciation of the word.

### Expected Results

* Check #2 is true.
