# Technique G121: Linking to pronunciations

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [3.1.6: Pronunciation](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/pronunciation) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to all technologies that include links.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to make the pronunciation of a word available by providing information about the pronunciation, either within the same web page or in a different web page, and establishing a link between the item and its pronunciation.

## Examples

### Example 1

A word is linked to its entry in a dictionary that includes pronunciation information.

### Example 2

A word is linked to a sound file that will speak the pronunciation.

### Example 3

A word in linked to its entry in a pronouncing dictionary.

### Example 4

A word is linked to an International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) representation of its pronunciation.

### Example 5

A word is linked to an unambiguous phonetic spelling of the pronunciation.

## Related Techniques

* [G62: Providing a glossary](../general/G62)
* [G120: Providing the pronunciation immediately following the word](../general/G120)
* [G163: Using standard diacritical marks that can be turned off](../general/G163)
* [H62: Using the ruby element](../html/H62)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each word that requires pronunciation information:

1. Check that at least the first instance of the item is a link.
2. Check that each link navigates to information about the pronunciation of the item.

### Expected Results

* All checks are true.
