# Technique G126: Providing a list of links to all other web pages

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.4.5: Multiple Ways](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/multiple-ways) (Sufficient when combined with other techniques).

This technique applies to all technologies that contain links.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to provide a list of links to all the web pages in the set on each web page. It is one of a series of techniques for locating content that are sufficient for addressing Success Criterion 2.4.5. This technique is only effective for small sets of web pages; if the list of links is longer than the rest of the content in the web page, it may make the web page more difficult for users to understand and use.

Note

Success Criterion 2.4.1 requires a technique for skipping this list of links.

## Examples

### Example 1

A family website contains home pages for all the members of the family. Each page contains a list of links to the home pages of the other family members.

### Example 2

An electronic book is broken into separate web pages for each chapter. Each web page starts with a small table of contents that contains links to all the chapters in the book.

## Related Techniques

* [G1: Adding a link at the top of each page that goes directly to the main content area](../general/G1)
* [G63: Providing a site map](../general/G63)
* [G64: Providing a Table of Contents](../general/G64)
* [G123: Adding a link at the beginning of a block of repeated content to go to the end of the block](../general/G123)
* [G125: Providing links to navigate to related web pages](../general/G125)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Check that each web page contains a list of links to the other web pages in the site
2. Check that the links in the list lead to the corresponding web pages.
3. Check that the list contains a link for every web page in the site.

### Expected Results

* All of the checks above are true.
