# Technique G127: Identifying a web page's relationship to a larger collection of web pages

## About this Technique

This technique relates to:

* [2.4.2: Page Titled](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/page-titled) (Advisory)
* [2.4.8: Location](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/location) (Sufficient)

This technique applies to all technologies.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to enable users to identify the relationship between the current web page and other web pages in the same collection (e.g., on the same website). In some cases this can be done programmatically—for example by using the rel attribute of the link element in HTML. In other cases the information is provided by including the relevant information in the title of the web page.

## Examples

### Example 1: The title of a web page includes the name of the sub-site

A large website includes tutorials and reference materials for numerous technologies. The title of each web page includes the name of the sub-site as well as the organization that produces the site.

### Example 2: Including identifying information in metadata

A web page includes metadata that identifies it as the table of contents for a collection of documents. The metadata for each document in the collection identifies the document's position in the collection and provides a reference to the table of contents.

### Example 3: Chapters in an online textbook

An online textbook is divided into chapters. The title of each web page includes the number and title of the chapter as well as the title of the textbook.

## Related Techniques

* [G65: Providing a breadcrumb trail](../general/G65)
* [G88: Providing descriptive titles for web pages](../general/G88)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Check if the title of the web page describes the web page's relationship to the collection to which it belongs.
2. Check if the web page includes metadata identifying the web page's relationship to the collection to which it belongs.

### Expected Results

* Check #1 or check #2 is true.
