# Technique G128: Indicating current location within navigation bars

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.4.8: Location](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/location) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to all technologies.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to help orient the user by providing information about the current location via the navigational user interface component. This technique is especially useful when the web pages are steps in a task that must be processed in order. Providing this indication helps the user to better understand their place in the sequence. The location may be indicated by adding an icon or text, or by changing the state of the item.

## Examples

### Example 1

A web page implements tab panel style navigation. A list of panel tabs is displayed horizontally across the page. The current content is displayed in a panel below the list of panel tabs. When the user navigates to and selects a particular panel tab the content in the panel is updated to reflect the topic of the selected tab. In addition, the background color of the selected tab is changed from the default color and a check mark icon is displayed next to the tab panel text to indicate it is the active panel. The check mark icon includes an appropriate text alternative.

### Example 2

The navigation bar for a site is implemented as a list of links. The navigation bar appears on all web pages within a collection of web pages. As the user gives focus to or hovers over a particular link in the navigation bar the background color of the link is changed. This change in styling on mouseover or focus is specified via the cascading style sheet for the web page. When focus is removed from the link the style is reset to the normal link style. When the link is activated to change the contents of the page, the selected link within the navigation bar is disabled since the result of following this link is the web page currently being displayed. Changing the background color gives sighted users visual notification of the link to be selected. Disabling the link provides information to all users that it is the currently selected topic.

## Related Techniques

* [G14: Ensuring that information conveyed by color differences is also available in text](../general/G14)
* [G205: Including a text cue for colored form control labels](../general/G205)
* [G182: Ensuring that additional visual cues are available when text color differences are used to convey information](../general/G182)
* [G183: Using a contrast ratio of 3:1 with surrounding text and providing additional visual cues on hover for links or controls where color alone is used to identify them](../general/G183)

## Tests

### Procedure

When the navigation component is repeated within a set of web pages:

1. Check that the user is given an indication of the currently selected item within the navigational unit.
2. Check that the selected item matches the content which is being displayed.

### Expected Results

* Checks #1 and #2 are true.
