# Technique G133: Providing a checkbox on the first page of a multipart form that allows users to ask for longer session time limit or no session time limit

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.2.1: Timing Adjustable](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/timing-adjustable) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to content that includes multipart forms.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to minimize the risk that users with disabilities will lose their work by providing a checkbox to request additional time to complete multipart forms. The checkbox can allow the user to request a specific amount of additional time (for example 15 minutes) or an indefinite extension. (Note that allowing an indefinite extension would be inappropriate if it jeopardized user privacy or network security.)

## Examples

### Example 1: A checkbox for requesting a specific extension

A web page contains the first part of a five-part form. Immediately following the general instructions for completing the form is a checkbox with the label, “Allow an additional 15 minutes to complete each part of this form."

### Example 2: Requesting an indefinite extension

A web page contains the first part of a three-part form. Each part of the form includes more than 10 items. Some items require users to follow links for additional information. Immediately following the general instructions for completing the form is a checkbox with the label, “Allow as much time as I need to complete this form. I understand that I must close (quit) the web browser if I choose to stop before completing the last part of the form."

## Tests

### Procedure

If the web page contains the first part of a multipart form:

1. Check that the web page includes a checkbox to request additional time to complete the form.
2. Check that if the checkbox is checked, additional time is provided to complete the form.

### Expected Results

1. All checks are true.
