# Technique G136: Providing a link at the beginning of a nonconforming web page that points to a conforming alternate version

## About this Technique

This technique is not referenced from any Understanding document.

This technique applies to primary content does not conform to WCAG but alternate versions exist that do conform to WCAG. This technique can only be used if a technology makes it possible to create an accessible link to an alternate version.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to enable users to access alternate content that conforms to WCAG if the primary content, or the default content that users encounter when visiting a particular URI, does not conform. The alternate page, or conforming alternate version, may make some design or functionality compromises in order to conform, but must meet the requirements described in the definition in order to be a conforming alternate version. The definition of "conforming alternate version" is:

When using this technique, placing a WCAG-conforming link to alternate content at the top of the page allows users to find the link quickly and to move to the conforming alternate version. To ensure users can always find the alternate version, regardless of where they enter the site, each page that does not conform at the specified level would include a link to the conforming alternate version.

## Examples

* On a website, for each page that does not conform to WCAG at the declared level, the first link on the page is called "Accessible version" (or using other link text that properly conveys the purpose of the link). The target of this link is the alternate version of the page that conforms to WCAG at the declared level.

## Related Techniques

* [SVR2: Using .htaccess to ensure that the only way to access non-conforming content is from conforming content](../server-side-script/SVR2)
* [SCR38: Creating a conforming alternate version for a web page designed with progressive enhancement](../client-side-script/SCR38)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Identify a page that does not conform to WCAG at the claimed conformance level.
2. Determine if the page contains a link to a conforming alternate version of the page.
3. Determine if the alternate version is a [conforming alternate version](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-conforming-alternate-versions) of the original page and that it conforms to WCAG 2 at the claimed conformance level.

### Expected Results

* Both #2 and #3 are true.
