# Technique G138: Using semantic markup whenever color cues are used

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [1.3.1: Info and Relationships](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/info-and-relationships) (Sufficient when used for making information and relationships conveyed through presentation programmatically determinable).

This technique applies to all technologies that support color and text.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to combine color and semantic markup to convey information. Most users can quickly scan the content to locate information conveyed by using color. For users who cannot see color, semantic markup can provide a different type of cue. User agents can then make this type of structure perceivable to the user, for example using a different visual presentation for different types of structures or by using a different voice or pitch in an auditory presentation.

Most user agents will visually distinguish text that has been identified using semantic markup. Some assistive technologies provide a mechanism for determining the characteristics of content that has been created using proper semantic markup.

## Examples

### Example 1: Color and strong emphasis for required form fields

An HTML form contains several required fields. The labels for the required fields are displayed in red. In addition, the text of each label is marked up with the STRONG element for stronger emphasis. The instructions for completing the form indicate that "all required fields are displayed in red and are emphasized", followed by an example.

## Related Resources

No endorsement implied.

* [Screen Readers lack emphasis](https://www.paciellogroup.com/blog/2008/02/screen-readers-lack-emphasis/)
* [HTML: 4.5 Text-level semantics](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/text-level-semantics.html#text-level-semantics)

## Related Techniques

* [G205: Including a text cue for colored form control labels](../general/G205)
* [H49: Using semantic markup to mark emphasized or special text](../html/H49)

## Tests

### Procedure

For any content where color differences are used to convey information:

1. Check that the same information is available through semantic markup.

### Expected Results

* Check #1 is true.
