# Technique G144: Ensuring that the web page contains another CAPTCHA serving the same purpose using a different modality

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [1.1.1: Non-text Content](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/non-text-content) (Sufficient, together with [G143: Providing a text alternative that describes the purpose of the CAPTCHA](../general/G143)).

This technique applies to all technologies.

## Description

The purpose of this technique is to reduce occasions in which a user with a disability cannot complete a CAPTCHA task. Because there are alternate CAPTCHA tasks that use different modalities, a user is more likely to be able to complete one of the tasks successfully.

## Examples

* A web page that includes a CAPTCHA test that must be completed successfully before the user can advance to the next step in a process. The page includes both a visual task, such as typing words displayed in a image, and an audio task, such as typing letters spoken in an audio file. A user with hearing disabilities who cannot pass the audio CAPTCHA may be able to pass the visual CAPTCHA.
* A blog comment form includes a visual CAPTCHA that must be completed before a user can submit comments. In addition to the visual CAPTCHA, it includes a CAPTCHA with a form field that asks, "What is two plus seven?" with a text entry field that allows users to enter the correct answer.

## Related Techniques

* [G143: Providing a text alternative that describes the purpose of the CAPTCHA](../general/G143)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each CAPTCHA in a web page

1. Check that the web page contains another CAPTCHA for the same purpose but using a different modality.

### Expected Results

* Check #1 is true.
