# Technique G150: Providing text based alternatives for live audio-only content

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [1.2.9: Audio-only (Live)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/audio-only-live) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to all technologies that present live audio-only information.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to allow users who cannot hear to be able to access real-time audio broadcasts. It is more difficult to create accurate real-time alternatives because there is little time to correct mistakes, to listen a second time or to consult someone to be sure the words are accurately reproduced. It is also harder to simplify or paraphrase information if it is flowing too quickly.

Real-time typing text entry techniques exist using stenographic and rapid typing technologies. Re-voicing speech-to-text (where a person listens to speech and then carefully re-voices it into a computer trained to their speech) is used today for telephone relay services and may be used in the future for captioning. Eventually speech-to-text with correction will be possible.

## Examples

* A radio station uses web-based captioning services to provide alternatives for live sporting events; the output from the service is incorporated in a viewport of the web page which also includes a streaming audio control.

## Related Techniques

* [G9: Creating captions for live synchronized media](../general/G9)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Check that a procedure and policy is in place to ensure that text alternatives are delivered in real-time.
2. Check that procedure and policy are working by conducting a random sample to see if text alternatives appear.

### Expected Results

* Both #1 and #2 are true.
