# Technique G151: Providing a link to a text transcript of a prepared statement or script if the script is followed

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [1.2.9: Audio-only (Live)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/audio-only-live) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to all technologies that present live audio-only information.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to provide a transcript or script if the live audio content is following a set script. Because it is prepared in advance, the script can be more accurate and complete than live transcription. However, the script will not be synchronized with the audio as it plays. Live audio should not deviate from the script for this technique.

With this technique, a link to the transcript or script is provided and should conform to WCAG 2 and could either be included at another location on the same web page or at another URI.

## Examples

* A live radio play of a fringe theatre group is being broadcast to the web. As the actors stick largely to a set script, and the budget for the program is small, the producers provide a link (with the playwright's permission) to the script of the play in HTML.
* A member of the government broadcasts an important policy speech on the web. A transcript of the speech is made available on the website when the speech starts.

## Related Resources

No endorsement implied.

* [uiAccess list of transcription services](http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcript_services.html)
* [Transcripts on the Web: Getting people to your podcasts and videos](http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcripts_on_the_web.html)

## Related Techniques

* [G150: Providing text based alternatives for live audio-only content](../general/G150)
* [G58: Placing a link to the alternative for time-based media immediately next to the non-text content](../general/G58)
* [G69: Providing an alternative for time based media](../general/G69)
* [G157: Incorporating a live audio captioning service into a web page](../general/G157)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Check for the presence of a link that points directly to the script or transcript.
2. Check that the live audio follows the script.
3. If the alternate version(s) are on a separate page, check for the availability of link(s) to allow the user to get to the other versions.

### Expected Results

* All checks above are true.
