# Technique G169: Aligning text on only one side

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [1.4.8: Visual Presentation](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/visual-presentation) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to all technologies.

## Description

Many people with cognitive disabilities have a great deal of trouble with blocks of text that are justified (aligned to both the left and the right margins). The spaces between words create "rivers of white" running down the page, which can make the text difficult for some people to read. This failure describes situations where this confusing text layout occurs. The best way to avoid this problem is not to create text layout that is fully justified.

## Examples

### Example 1

For most technologies, simply leave out any alignment declarations. For example, the following text will be justified to the left by default in HTML where the language of the page is left to right.

```html
<p>Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, ...</p>
```

### Example 2

A web page includes sections with mixed alignment. Paragraphs in the body of the page are aligned to the left margin. The text also includes a number of pulled quotations which are aligned to the right margin.

## Related Techniques

* [C22: Using CSS to control visual presentation of text](../css/C22)
* [F88: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.8 due to using text that is justified (aligned to both the left and the right margins)](../failures/F88)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Open the page in a common browser.
2. Verify that content is not justified (aligned to both the left and the right margins).

### Expected Results

* Check #2 is true.
