# Technique G171: Playing sounds only on user request

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [1.4.2: Audio Control](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/audio-control) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to all technologies that can play sound.

## Description

The intent of this technique is to allow a user to control the use of sounds in web content. Someone that uses a screen reader may find it very distracting and difficult to listen to their screen reader if there are also sounds coming from web content. Providing a way to play sounds only upon request will give a user the control needed to listen to any sounds or other audio without interfering with the output from a screen reader.

## Examples

### Example 1

A web page from a grey whale conservation society has a looping background sound of grey whales singing. There are also sounds of water splashing. The sounds do not start automatically. Instead, the web content provides a link at the top of the page to allow the user to start the sounds manually. The button says "Turn sounds on." After pressing the "turn sounds on" button, the sounds are heard. The user is then presented with an option to "turn sounds off."

### Example 2

A link is provided to a sound file that includes the sounds of the grey whales. The link text says, "Hear the song of the grey whale (mp3)."

## Related Techniques

* [G60: Playing a sound that turns off automatically within three seconds](../general/G60)
* [G170: Providing a control near the beginning of the web page that turns off sounds that play automatically](../general/G170)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Load a web page that is known to contain sounds that play for 3 seconds or longer.
2. Check that no sounds play automatically.
3. Check that there is a way for a user to start sounds manually.

### Expected Results

* Check #3 is true.

## Test Rules

The following are Test Rules related to this Technique. It is not necessary to use these particular Test Rules to check for conformance with WCAG, but they are defined and approved test methods. For information on using Test Rules, see [Understanding Test Rules for WCAG Success Criteria](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/understanding-act-rules.html).

* [Audio or video element avoids automatically playing audio](/WAI/standards-guidelines/act/rules/80f0bf/proposed/)
