# Technique G186: Using a control in the web page that stops moving, blinking, or auto-updating content

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.2.2: Pause, Stop, Hide](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/pause-stop-hide) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to all technologies.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to provide the user a control that allows him to stop moving or blinking content. Since the control is in the web page, the control itself meets the appropriate level of WCAG conformance e.g., it has appropriate contrast, it has a name that identifies it, it is keyboard accessible. The control is either at the top of the page or adjacent to the moving content. A single control may stop all moving or blinking content on the page, or there may be separate controls for separate parts of the content.

## Examples

### Example 1: Stock Market Ticker Tape

A web page displays the latest stock market results in a "ticker tape" that automatically scrolls across the bottom of the screen. A "Pause" button lets the user stop the ticker tape. When the ticker tape is unpaused, it resumes displaying the current stock market information.

### Example 2: Teleconferencing Tool

A teleconferencing web page displays a speaker queue of people who wish to speak. A checkbox on the page lets the user choose whether the display of the queue should be updated automatically when a new person is added or removed, or whether it should only be updated when the user presses the "Refresh" button. When the queue is being updated automatically, the Refresh button is deactivated.

## Related Techniques

* [G4: Allowing the content to be paused and restarted from where it was paused](../general/G4)
* [G191: Providing a link, button, or other mechanism that reloads the page without any blinking content](../general/G191)
* [SCR22: Using scripts to control blinking and stop it in five seconds or less](../client-side-script/SCR22)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Check that there is a control on the web page to stop the motion.
2. Activate the control.
3. Check that the motion, blinking or auto-updating has stopped.

### Expected Results

* Checks #1 and #3 are true.
