# Technique G189: Providing a control near the beginning of the web page that changes the link text

## About this Technique

This technique relates to:

* [2.4.4: Link Purpose (In Context)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/link-purpose-in-context) (Sufficient when used for allowing the user to choose short or long link text)
* [2.4.9: Link Purpose (Link Only)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/link-purpose-link-only) (Sufficient when used for allowing the user to choose short or long link text)

This technique applies to all technologies that contain links.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to provide the user with a control near the beginning of the page that takes the user to a conforming alternate version of the web page where the link text alone of each link is sufficient to determine its purpose out of context.

Some users prefer to have links that are self-contained, where there is no need to explore the context of the link. Other users find including the context information in each link to be repetitive and to reduce their ability to use a site. Among users of assistive technology, the feedback to the working group on which is preferable has been divided. This technique allows users to pick the approach that works best for them. Users who need or prefer potentially longer but complete link text use this version.

If the control for switching to the alternate version is a link, it must always be possible to understand the purpose of the control directly from its link text.

This technique provides the alternate version for the current page view. It is also possible, and in some cases would be advisable, to save this preference in a cookie or server-side user profile, so that users would only have to make the selection once per site and would automatically be taken to their preferred version.

Note

This technique can be used in combination with a style switching technique to present a page that is a [conforming alternate version](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-conforming-alternate-versions) for non-conforming content. Refer to [C29: Using a style switcher to provide a conforming alternate version](../css/C29) and [Understanding Conforming Alternate Versions](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/conformance#conforming-alt-versions) for more information.

## Examples

### Example 1: Providing a Link to another Version

A web page lists books for download in different formats. Alternate versions of the web page use just the book format as the link text or the book title and format type.

Version with short link text:

```html
<h1>Books for download</h1>
<p><a href="books-full-links.html">Full link Version</a></p>
<ul>
  <li>The History of the Web: 
    <a href="history.docx">Word</a>, 
    <a href="history.pdf">PDF</a>, 
    <a href="history.html">HTML</a>
  </li>
</ul>
```

#### Version with full link text:

```html
<h1>Books for download</h1>
<p><a href="books-short-links.html">Short link Version</a></p>
<ul>
  <li>The History of the Web: 
    <a href="history.docx" class="hist">The History of the Web (Word)</a>, 
    <a href="history.pdf" class="hist">The History of the Web (PDF)</a>, 
    <a href="history.html" class="hist">The History of the Web (HTML)</a>
  </li>
</ul>
```

## Related Techniques

* [G91: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link](../general/G91)
* [H30: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link for anchor elements](../html/H30)
* [H24: Providing text alternatives for the area elements of image maps](../html/H24)
* [C7: Using CSS to hide a portion of the link text](../css/C7)
* [SCR30: Using scripts to change the link text](../client-side-script/SCR30)
* [G136: Providing a link at the beginning of a nonconforming web page that points to a conforming alternate version](../general/G136)
* [C29: Using a style switcher to provide a conforming alternate version](../css/C29)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Check that there is a control near the beginning of the web page to change link text.
2. Activate the control.
3. Check that all links in the resulting web page have link text that describes their purpose.

### Expected Results

* Checks #1 and #3 are true.
