# Technique G19: Ensuring that no component of the content flashes more than three times in any 1-second period

## About this Technique

This technique relates to:

* [2.3.1: Three Flashes or Below Threshold](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/three-flashes-or-below-threshold) (Sufficient)
* [2.3.2: Three Flashes](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/three-flashes) (Sufficient)

This technique applies to any technology.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to avoid flashing at rates that are known to cause seizures if the flashes are bright and large enough. Since some users may be using screen enlargers, this technique limits the flashing of any size content to no more than three flashes in any 1-second period.

Note

This technique is stricter than the Level A success criteria but is easier to test and can be used to meet the Level A success criteria because all failure thresholds in the Level A success criteria involve flashing 3.5 flashes or more within one second. Most content does not flash at all and even content that blinks does not blink this fast except on rare occasions. Therefore, in order to avoid having to carry out the more complex testing specified by the Success Criteria, one could follow this technique to ensure that content only flashes one, two, or at most three times in any 1-second period.

Regarding 3.5 Flashes; if there are seven transitions from dark to light or light to dark, it would be 3.5 flashes, which is more than the allowed three flashes (six transitions).

Examples of 3.5 flashes or seven transitions:

* STARTING DARK-LIGHT-DARK-LIGHT-DARK-LIGHT-DARK-LIGHT or
* STARTING LIGHT-DARK-LIGHT-DARK-LIGHT-DARK-LIGHT-DARK.

## Examples

* Content has lightning flashes. Content is designed so that lightning only flashes two or three times without a pause in flashing.

## Related Resources

No endorsement implied.

* [Trace Center Photosensitive Epilepsy Analysis Tool (PEAT)](https://trace.umd.edu/peat/)

## Related Techniques

* [G15: Using a tool to ensure that content does not violate the general flash threshold or red flash threshold](../general/G15)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Check that there are no more than three flashes during any 1-second period.
2. If there are three flashes, check that the Light/Dark status at the end of the 1-second period is the same as at the start.

### Expected Results

* Both checks #1 and #2 are true.
