# Technique G194: Providing spell checking and suggestions for text input

## About this Technique

This technique relates to:

* [3.3.5: Help](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/help) (Sufficient)
* [4.1.3: Status Messages](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/status-messages) (Sufficient when used with [ARIA19: Using ARIA role=alert or Live Regions to Identify Errors](../aria/ARIA19))

This technique applies to all technologies.

## Description

In this technique spell checking and suggestions for text are provided. Often people with cognitive disabilities have trouble spelling a word, but may be able to get the spelling approximately correct. A spell checking program will save them time-consuming research on how to spell the word. This may also be true for blind and low vision users who might make a mistake when typing. It will also help people with dexterity disabilities who may be using a head pointer, or who may have scanning software which makes it very slow and difficult to type. A spell-checking solution that provides word suggestion(s) and a simple mechanism to select one and input it into the text input field provides important help for these users and others.

## Examples

* A search engine has a form field for search terms. When the form is submitted, a server-side application checks the spelling. If the spelling doesn't match any words for that language, it sends back a page with a text message at the top saying "Did you mean ..." with a link to the suggested word. If the user clicks on the link the suggested term is entered into the form field and is resubmitted.
* An airline has a on online ticket purchasing application. When a user types the name of a city into the form field a dropdown menu shows the closest match to the city in the top of the menu and other suggestions below.

## Related Techniques

* [G71: Providing a help link on every web page](../general/G71)
* [G103: Providing visual illustrations, pictures, and symbols to help explain ideas, events, and processes](../general/G103)
* [G120: Providing the pronunciation immediately following the word](../general/G120)
* [G121: Linking to pronunciations](../general/G121)
* [H89: Using the title attribute to provide context-sensitive help](../html/H89)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Check that there is a form field on the page.
2. Enter a misspelled word.
3. Check that a suggested spelling is presented.
4. Check that a mechanism is available to enter the suggested word into the form.

### Expected Results

* Checks #3 and #4 are true.
