# Technique G198: Providing a way for the user to turn the time limit off

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.2.1: Timing Adjustable](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/timing-adjustable) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to all technologies.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to provide a mechanism for people who cannot complete tasks within a specified time limit to turn off the time limit.

It is essential that the mechanism for turning off the time limit can be completed without a time limit itself and before the time limit for the page expires. To do this - the mechanism should be available at or near the top of the page so that it can be found and activated quickly by people with a wide range of disabilities.

## Examples

* A page has a listing of news headlines that automatically update every minute. At the top of the page is a link that turns off the updating.

## Related Techniques

* [G133: Providing a checkbox on the first page of a multipart form that allows users to ask for longer session time limit or no session time limit](../general/G133)
* [G180: Providing the user with a means to set the time limit to 10 times the default time limit](../general/G180)
* [SCR16: Providing a script that warns the user a time limit is about to expire](../client-side-script/SCR16)
* [G4: Allowing the content to be paused and restarted from where it was paused](../general/G4)
* [SCR33: Using script to scroll content, and providing a mechanism to pause it](../client-side-script/SCR33)
* [SCR36: Providing a mechanism to allow users to display moving, scrolling, or auto-updating text in a static window or area](../client-side-script/SCR36)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Check that there is a mechanism to turn off any time limits near the top of the page.
2. Verify that the time limit for the page is long enough that a user can easily navigate to the mechanism even if they are 10 times slower than most users.

### Expected Results

* Checks #1 and #2 are true.
