# Technique G214: Using a control to allow access to content in different orientations which is otherwise restricted

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [1.3.4: Orientation](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/orientation) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to when the orientation of the page is locked, provide a button to allow a user to change the orientation.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to allow users to access content in the way the user prefers. A content provider may expect that most users will view content using a specific device orientation or may expect that a user will want to maintain the original view within the device. As a result the provider then prevents the content from rotating. By providing a control to allow the user to rotate the content, someone who needs to use a particular orientation will be able to view the content in a comfortable manner. For example, a person who cannot hold the device and has it mounted attached to a wheelchair or bed.

Note

Many users will expect to use OS-level settings to prevent the orientation from changing. As a result, it is usually preferable to satisfy this success criterion by not restricting the content's ability to adapt to changes in orientation and allowing users to use the OS orientation lock when desired.

## Examples

### Example 1: An e-Reader application

Users of an e-Reader web application sometimes read when lying down on their side. In this situation, the device is viewed by the user in portrait mode even though the device is in the landscape orientation with regard to gravity. The developer locks the content into the portrait orientation to allow for this reading behavior, but also provides a control to allow users who have devices mounted in a specific orientation to achieve the desired viewing orientation.

## Related Techniques

* [F97: Failure due to locking the orientation to landscape or portrait view](../failures/F97)

## Tests

### Procedure

For content that does not change orientation when the device is rotated:

1. Check for a control within the user interface to change the orientation of the content.
2. Check that when the control is operated that the content changes orientation.

### Expected Results

* Checks #1 and #2 are true.
