# Technique G221: Provide data from a previous step in a process

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [3.3.7: Redundant Entry](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/redundant-entry) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to any technology that supports user input.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to provide information that was previously provided by the user or by the system, rather than requiring the user to remember and re-enter the information from a previous step. This improves success for individuals with cognitive and learning disabilities and memory impairments.

## Examples

### Example 1: Populate previously entered information with a trigger

An e-commerce site provides a checkbox that triggers the shipping address to be pre-populated based on the billing address the user had entered in a previous step.

### Example 2: Automatically populate information based on previous answers

During a two-step process for setting up a business, the first step provides a business identification number after the user enters a name, and address. The second step requires creating a user profile. The business identification number, name and address are prepopulated.

### Example 3: Display the information from a previous step

During a two-step process for setting up a business, the first step provides a business identification number after the user enters a name and address. The second step requires creating a user profile. The interface allows the user to select the business they just set up with all associated information.

## Tests

### Procedure

For each input in a process that requires information to be entered:

1. Check if the information has already been requested on a previous step of the process;
2. Check that the information entered previously is prepopulated in the fields or displayed on the page.

### Expected Results

* #1 and #2 are true.
