# Technique G223: Using an author-supplied, highly visible focus indicator

## About this Technique

This technique is not referenced from any Understanding document.

This technique applies to all technologies.

## Description

The objective of this technique is enhance the focus indicator in the browser, by creating a highly visible one in the content. This technique is very similar to [G195](G195), but with a stronger indicator to meet [Focus Appearance](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/focus-appearance).

## Examples

### Example 1: Links

A web page has a dark background color and light text and links. When focus lands on a link, the link is outlined with a bright yellow line, 3 pixels wide.

### Example 2: Form Elements

A web page includes a form inside a table. The borders of both the table and the form elements are thin, black lines. When focus lands on a form element, the element is outlined with a 5 pixel red line that is partially transparent. The red is equivalent to a hex color of #CA0000, providing a 6:1 contrast ratio with the white background.

### Example 3: Menus

A web page includes an interactive menu with sub-menus. A user can move focus in the menu using the arrow keys. As focus moves, the currently focused menu item changes its background to a different color, which has a 15:1 contrast ratio with the surrounding items (whilst maintaining text contrast).

## Related Techniques

* [G149: Using user interface components that are highlighted by the user agent when they receive focus](../general/G149)
* [G165: Using the default focus indicator for the platform so that high visibility default focus indicators will carry over](../general/G165)
* [C15: Using CSS to change the presentation of a user interface component when it receives focus](../css/C15)
* [SCR31: Using script to change the background color or border of the element with focus](../client-side-script/SCR31)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each user interface component on the page that should receive keyboard focus:

1. Navigate to the component and check that it has a visible focus indicator that is not obscured by other content.
2. Check that the focus indicator area is at least double the size of a 1 CSS px border around the component.
3. Check that the change of contrast of the indicator between focused and unfocused states has a ratio of 4.5:1 or more for the minimum focus indicator area.

### Expected Results

* All checks are true.
