# Technique G5: Allowing users to complete an activity without any time limit

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.2.3: No Timing](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/no-timing) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to any technologies or methods supporting the implementation of an activity which does not require timed interaction for its functionality.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to provide users with all the time they need to complete an activity. This technique involves providing a specified activity which does not require timed interaction. Users are allowed as much time as they need to interact with the activity.

## Examples

* An interactive exam for a course provides all questions on one web page. Users can take as much time as they need to complete it.
* In an interactive game, users can take as much time as they like on their turn instead of having to complete their move within a limited amount of time.
* In an online auction, each bidder can submit only one bid rather than submitting multiple competitive bids based on timing. The bidding is open for a full day, providing enough time for anyone to complete the simple bid form. Once bidding is closed, the best bid wins.

## Related Resources

No endorsement implied.

* [Top Ten Web Design Mistakes of 2005](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/top-ten-web-design-mistakes-of-2005/)

## Related Techniques

* [G75: Providing a mechanism to postpone any updating of content](../general/G75)
* [G76: Providing a mechanism to request an update of the content instead of updating automatically](../general/G76)
* [G80: Providing a submit button to initiate a change of context](../general/G80)
* [G198: Providing a way for the user to turn the time limit off](../general/G198)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Determine if any timed interactions are present (client and/or server side).

### Expected Results

* #1 is false.
