# Technique G53: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with the text of the enclosing sentence

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.4.4: Link Purpose (In Context)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/link-purpose-in-context) (Sufficient).

This technique applies to all technologies that contain links.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to identify the purpose of a link from the link and its sentence context. The sentence enclosing the link provides context for an otherwise unclear link. The description lets a user distinguish this link from links in the web page that lead to other destinations and helps the user determine whether to follow the link. Note that simply providing the URI of the destination is generally not sufficiently descriptive.

Note

These descriptions will be most useful to the user if the additional information needed to understand the link precedes the link. If the additional information follows the link, there can be confusion and difficulty for screen reader users who are reading through the page in order (top to bottom).

## Examples

### Example 1

A web page contains the sentence "To advertise on this page, [click here](http://example.com)."

Although the link phrase 'click here' is not sufficient to understand the link, the information needed precedes the link in the same sentence.

### Example 2

In the news summary containing the sentence "The Smallville Times [reports that](http://example.com) the School Board chose a 2007 school calendar that starts on August 27.", the words "reports that" are a link to an article in the Smallville Times about the School Board meeting.

Note

Although this example satisfies the Success Criterion, putting information needed to understand the link after the link in this way is awkward for those who are reading through the document with a screen reader.

## Related Techniques

* [G91: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link](../general/G91)
* [H2: Combining adjacent image and text links for the same resource](../html/H2)
* [H30: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link for anchor elements](../html/H30)
* [H33: Supplementing link text with the title attribute](../html/H33)
* [H77: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with its enclosing list item](../html/H77)
* [H78: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with its enclosing paragraph](../html/H78)
* [H79: Identifying the purpose of a link in a data table using the link text combined with its enclosing table cell and associated table header cells](../html/H79)
* [H80: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with the preceding heading element](../html/H80)
* [H81: Identifying the purpose of a link in a nested list using link text combined with the parent list item under which the list is nested](../html/H81)
* [C7: Using CSS to hide a portion of the link text](../css/C7)
* [ARIA1: Using the aria-describedby property to provide a descriptive label for user interface controls](../aria/ARIA1)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each link in the content that uses this technique:

1. Check that the link is part of a sentence
2. Check that text of the link combined with the text of its enclosing sentence describes the purpose of the link

### Expected Results

* The above checks are true.
