# Technique G55: Linking to definitions

## About this Technique

This technique relates to:

* [3.1.3: Unusual Words](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/unusual-words) (Sufficient using a more specific technique when used with [G101: Providing the definition of a word or phrase used in an unusual or restricted way](../general/G101))
* [3.1.4: Abbreviations](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/abbreviations) (Sufficient when used with [G102: Providing the expansion or explanation of an abbreviation](../general/G102))

This technique applies to all technologies that include links.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to make the definition of a word, phrase, or abbreviation available by providing the definition, either within the same web page or in a different web page, and establishing a link between the item and its definition.

Links are a powerful option for providing access to the definition of a word, phrase, or abbreviation. A user can use the link to find the definition quickly and easily, and then return to their place in the content via the user agent's Back button.

## Examples

### Example 1

Technical terms and abbreviations in an article about sports injuries are linked to definitions in a medical dictionary.

### Example 2

A textbook contains a glossary of new vocabulary words introduced in each chapter. The first occurrence of each of these words is linked to its definition in the glossary.

### Example 3

A general glossary of abbreviations is provided. All occurrences of abbreviations are linked directly to the appropriate definition within that glossary.

### Example 4

The word jargon is linked to its definition in the WCAG2 Glossary.

### Example 5

The word "modulo" is jargon used in web content about mathematics. A definition for modulo is included within the web page. Each occurrence of the word modulo is linked to its definition.

### Example 6

A Japanese idiom is linked to its definition. This example uses a link within the page to navigate to the definition of an idiomatic expression.

```html
<p>...<a href="#definition">さじを投げる</a>...</p>
<h3>脚注：</h3>
<dl>
  <dt id="definition">さじを投げる</dt>
  <dd>どうすることもできなくなり、あきらめること。</dd>
</dl>
```

## Related Techniques

* [G62: Providing a glossary](../general/G62)
* [G70: Providing a function to search an online dictionary](../general/G70)
* [G101: Providing the definition of a word or phrase used in an unusual or restricted way](../general/G101)
* [G102: Providing the expansion or explanation of an abbreviation](../general/G102)
* [G112: Using inline definitions](../general/G112)
* [H40: Using description lists](../html/H40)
* [H64: Using the title attribute of the iframe element](../html/H64)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each word, phrase, or abbreviation to be defined:

1. Check that at least the first instance of the item is a link.
2. Check that each link navigates to the definition of the item.

### Expected Results

* Checks #1 and #2 are true.
