# Technique G58: Placing a link to the alternative for time-based media immediately next to the non-text content

## About this Technique

This technique relates to:

* [1.2.3: Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/audio-description-or-media-alternative-prerecorded) (Sufficient when used with [G69: Providing an alternative for time based media](../general/G69))
* [1.2.8: Media Alternative (Prerecorded)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/media-alternative-prerecorded) (Sufficient when used with [G69: Providing an alternative for time based media](../general/G69))

This technique is not technology specific and can be used in any technology that supports links.

## Description

With this technique, a link to the collated document of captions and audio description is provided. The collated document could be at another location on the same web page or at another URI. A link to the collated document is immediately adjacent to the non-text content. The link can be immediately before or after the synchronized media content. If the collated document is on the same web page as other content then put "End of document" at the end so that they know when to stop reading and return to their previous place. If a Back button will not take the person back to the point from which they jumped, then a link back to the non-text content location is provided.

## Examples

### Example 1: A .MOV Document in an HTML Document

Code on a page called "olympic-sports.html"

```html
<p id="olympic-wrestling">
  <a href="/movies/olympic-wrestling.mov">Olympic wrestling movie</a>, 
  <a href="/transcripts/olympic-wrestling-transcript.html">Olympic 
   wrestling collated transcript</a>
</p>
```

### Example 2: The link back to the .MOV Document in an HTML Document

Code on the page olympic-wrestling-transcript.html

```html
<p>Sports announcer 1: This is a great battle tonight between England's "Will Johnson"
   and "Theodore Derringo" from Argentina.</p>
<p>Scenery: There is a mat set out in the middle of the stadium with 500 people in the 
   stands...</p>
<p>...more dialogue...<p>
<p>...more scenery...</p>
<p>...etc...</p>
<p>Sports announcer 2: And that is all for tonight, thank you for joining us tonight
   where Will Johnson is the new Gold Medalist. 
<a href="../movies/olympic-sports.html#olympic-wrestling">Return to movie page</a></p>
```

## Related Techniques

* [G69: Providing an alternative for time based media](../general/G69)
* [G159: Providing an alternative for time-based media for video-only content](../general/G159)
* [H53: Using the body of the object element](../html/H53)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Check for the presence of a link immediately before or after the non-text content.
2. Check that it is a valid link that points directly to the collated document of this particular synchronized media.
3. Check for the availability of a link or back function to get the user back to the original location of the synchronized media content.

### Expected Results

* Items #1 through 3 are all true.
