# Technique G68: Providing a short text alternative that describes the purpose of live
          audio-only and live video-only content

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [1.1.1: Non-text Content](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/non-text-content) (Sufficient using a more specific technique).

This technique applies to all technologies.

## Description

This technique provides a short text alternative for Live audio-only and live video-only content. This text may be used in combination with a full text alternative for time-based media (for audio or video), or in combination with audio description (for video). Those alternatives, however, are not part of this technique. The purpose of this technique is to ensure that the user can determine what the non-text content is, even if they cannot access it. NOTE: Even if full alternatives are also available, it is important that users be able to identify the non-text content when they encounter it so that they are not confused, and so that they can associate it with the full alternative when they encounter it.

## Examples

### Example 1

* A live video feed of the east coast highway has the following descriptive label "Live video picture of East Coast Highway just south of the I-81 interchange showing current traffic conditions."
* A live audio feed of the Mississippi House of Representatives has the following descriptive label "Live audio from the microphones in the Mississippi House of Representatives."

## Related Techniques

* [G100: Providing a short text alternative which is the accepted name or a descriptive name of the non-text content](../general/G100)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Remove, hide, or mask the non-text content.
2. Display the short text alternative(s).
3. Check that the purpose of the non-text content is clear, even if content is lost.

### Expected Results

* #3 is true.
