# Technique G70: Providing a function to search an online dictionary

## About this Technique

This technique relates to:

* [3.1.3: Unusual Words](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/unusual-words) (Sufficient when used with [G101: Providing the definition of a word or phrase used in an unusual or restricted way](../general/G101))
* [3.1.4: Abbreviations](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/abbreviations) (Sufficient when used with [G102: Providing the expansion or explanation of an abbreviation](../general/G102))

This technique applies to all technologies.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to provide the definition of words, phrases, jargon, or abbreviation expansions by adding a mechanism to access an on-line dictionary to the web page. This technique uses existing resources on the web to provide the definition rather than requiring the author to create a glossary or other mechanism within the site. By providing access from within the web page, a user can easily locate the desired definition. This technique can only be used if the online dictionary returns the correct definition.

## Examples

### Example 1

A site that describes how a computer works would include a search feature on each web page. The search would be performed against an on-line dictionary of computer terms, acronyms, and abbreviations. Since the dictionary is specialized for computer terms, the acronym expansion found should be more accurate than with a general dictionary.

### Example 2

An online course in English grammar provides a paragraph of text which introduces new vocabulary words. Each of the vocabulary words is a link to an on-line dictionary to find the definition of the word. Activating a link will open up a new window to an online dictionary site with the specific vocabulary word defined.

## Related Techniques

* [G55: Linking to definitions](../general/G55)
* [G62: Providing a glossary](../general/G62)
* [G112: Using inline definitions](../general/G112)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each word, phrase, or abbreviation to be defined:

1. Check that a mechanism exists within the web page to search for the word, phrase, or abbreviation via an on-line dictionary.
2. Check that the result of the search of the dictionary for the word, phrase, or abbreviation is the correct definition.

### Expected Results

* Checks #1 and #2 are true.

Note: The definition of abbreviation used in WCAG is: "shortened form of a word, phrase, or name where the original expansion has not been rejected by the organization that it refers to and where the abbreviation has not become part of the language."
