# Technique G8: Providing a movie with extended audio descriptions

## About this Technique

This technique relates to:

* [1.2.3: Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/audio-description-or-media-alternative-prerecorded) (Sufficient using a more specific technique)
* [1.2.5: Audio Description (Prerecorded)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/audio-description-prerecorded) (Sufficient using a more specific technique)
* [1.2.7: Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/extended-audio-description-prerecorded) (Sufficient using a more specific technique)

This technique applies to any technology that supports audio and video.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to provide a second version of video content that provides extended audio descriptions in the same [human language](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#dfn-human-language-s) as the video. One of the difficult things about creating traditional audio descriptions is that the narrator sometimes has to provide a lot of information during very short pauses in dialogue. Extended audio description temporarily pauses the audio and video to allow critical information to be delivered when pauses in dialogue are insufficient for adequate description.

Providing a second version of the movie with extended audio descriptions will make this content accessible for blind people who need to hear not only the dialogue but also the context and other aspects of the video that are not communicated by the characters' dialogue alone, and for which there is insufficient time during the natural dialogue.

Because it disrupts viewing for those who do not need the additional description, techniques that allow you to turn the feature on and off are often provided. Alternately, versions with and without the additional description can be provided.

## Examples

### Example 1

An alternate version of an online video of a family escaping from a burning building: there is a continuous dialogue between the husband and wife about where the children are. Meanwhile, in the background, a wall caves in. This is important information in the story because it will block their exit from that part of the building. The video track halts (same frame is repeated) while a narrator gives the details about the wall falling and the video continues.

### Example 2

A training film has narrative that runs almost continuously throughout. An alternate version is available for people who have difficulty viewing the video portion. The alternate version freezes the video and provides audio description of key information.

## Related Resources

No endorsement implied.

* [Accessible SMIL Templates](http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/accessible-digital-media-guide/guideline-h-multimedia#techH12)
* [Extended Audio Description](http://ncam.wgbh.org/experience_learn/educational_media/e-description-extended-and-enh/edescription-demonstration---a)

## Related Techniques

* [G78: Providing a second, user-selectable, audio track that includes audio descriptions](../general/G78)
* [G69: Providing an alternative for time based media](../general/G69)
* [G173: Providing a version of a movie with audio descriptions](../general/G173)
* [SM1: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 1.0](../smil/SM1)
* [SM2: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 2.0](../smil/SM2)
* [SM6: Providing audio description in SMIL 1.0](../smil/SM6)
* [SM7: Providing audio description in SMIL 2.0](../smil/SM7)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Open the version of the movie that includes extended audio descriptions.
2. Check that the video halts for extended audio description when there is not enough space to include necessary narration between the natural dialogue.
3. Check that the necessary information is in the audio description.
4. If the alternate version(s) are on a separate page, check for the availability of link(s) to allow the user to get to the other versions.

### Expected Results

* Checks #2, #3 and #4 are true.

## Test Rules

The following are Test Rules related to this Technique. It is not necessary to use these particular Test Rules to check for conformance with WCAG, but they are defined and approved test methods. For information on using Test Rules, see [Understanding Test Rules for WCAG Success Criteria](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/understanding-act-rules.html).

* [Video element visual content has accessible alternative](/WAI/standards-guidelines/act/rules/c5a4ea/proposed/)
* [Video element visual content has audio description](/WAI/standards-guidelines/act/rules/1ea59c/proposed/)
* [Video element visual content has strict accessible alternative](/WAI/standards-guidelines/act/rules/1ec09b/proposed/)
