# Technique G82: Providing a text alternative that identifies the purpose of the non-text content

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [1.1.1: Non-text Content](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/non-text-content) (Sufficient using a more specific technique).

This technique applies to all technologies.

## Description

The purpose of this technique is to provide useful information via the text alternative even if the full function of the non-text content cannot be provided.

Sometimes, a text alternative cannot serve the same purpose as the original non-text content (for example an applet meant to develop two dimensional rapid targeting skills and eye hand coordination.) In these cases this technique is used. With this technique a description of the purpose of the non-text content is provided.

## Examples

### Example 1

* An eye-hand coordination development applet has the following text alternative "Applet that uses the mouse and moving targets to develop eye-hand coordination"
* A camera applet that has a round disk where you push on the edges to control a remote camera and a slider in the middle for zooming has the following text alternative "Control for aiming and zooming remote video camera".

## Related Techniques

* [G196: Using a text alternative on one item within a group of images that describes all items in the group](../general/G196)
* [H36: Using alt attributes on images used as submit buttons](../html/H36)
* [H37: Using alt attributes on img elements](../html/H37)
* [H53: Using the body of the object element](../html/H53)
* [H86: Providing text alternatives for emojis, emoticons, ASCII art, and leetspeak](../html/H86)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. remove, hide, or mask the non-text content
2. replace it with the text alternative
3. check that the purpose of the non-text content is clear - even if function is lost.

### Expected Results

* #3 is true.
