# Technique H25: Providing a title using the title element

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.4.2: Page Titled](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/page-titled) (Sufficient when used with [G88: Providing descriptive titles for web pages](../general/G88)).

This technique applies to HTML.

## Description

All HTML documents, including those in frames, have a title element in the head section that defines in a simple phrase the purpose of the document. This helps users to orient themselves within the site quickly without having to search for orientation information in the body of the page.

Note that the (mandatory) title element, which only appears once in a document, is different from the title attribute, which may be applied to almost every HTML element.

## Examples

### Example 1

This example defines a document's title.

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <title>The World Wide Web Consortium</title>     
  </head>
  <body>
      ...   
  </body> 
</html>
```

## Related Resources

No endorsement implied.

* [HTML - The title element](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/semantics.html#the-title-element).

## Related Techniques

* [G88: Providing descriptive titles for web pages](../general/G88)
* [G127: Identifying a web page's relationship to a larger collection of web pages](../general/G127)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Examine the source code of the HTML document and check that a non-empty title element appears in the head section.
2. Check that the title element describes the document.

### Expected Results

* Checks #1 and #2 are true.

## Test Rules

The following are Test Rules related to this Technique. It is not necessary to use these particular Test Rules to check for conformance with WCAG, but they are defined and approved test methods. For information on using Test Rules, see [Understanding Test Rules for WCAG Success Criteria](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/understanding-act-rules.html).

* [HTML page has non-empty title](/WAI/standards-guidelines/act/rules/2779a5/)
* [HTML page title is descriptive](/WAI/standards-guidelines/act/rules/c4a8a4/)
