# Technique H39: Using caption elements to associate data table captions with data tables

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [1.3.1: Info and Relationships](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/info-and-relationships) (Sufficient when used for making information and relationships conveyed through presentation programmatically determinable).

This technique applies to HTML data tables.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to programmatically associate captions for data tables where captions are provided in the presentation. The caption for a table is a table identifier and acts like a title or heading for the table.

The caption element is the appropriate markup for such text and it ensures that the table identifier remains associated with the table, including visually (by default). In addition, using the caption element allows screen reading software to navigate directly to the caption for a table if one is present.

Note

Although WCAG 2 does not prohibit the use of layout tables, CSS-based layouts are recommended in order to retain the defined semantic meaning of the HTML table elements and to conform to the coding practice of separating presentation from content. If a table is used for layout, the caption element is not used. The purpose of a layout table is simply to control the placement of content; the table itself is "transparent" to the user. A caption would "break" this transparency by calling attention to the table. See [F46](../failures/F46) for details.

## Examples

### Example 1: An appointment calendar with a caption

```html
<table>
  <caption>Schedule for the week of March 6</caption>
  ...
</table>
```

## Related Resources

No endorsement implied.

* [HTML - the caption element](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/tables.html#the-caption-element).

## Related Techniques

* [H51: Using table markup to present tabular information](../html/H51)
* [F46: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to using th elements, … layout tables](../failures/F46)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each data table:

1. Check that the table includes a caption element.
2. Check that the text that titles or describes the table is included in the caption element.

### Expected Results

* #1 and #2 are true.
