# Technique H80: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with the preceding heading element

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [2.4.4: Link Purpose (In Context)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/link-purpose-in-context) (Advisory).

This technique applies to HTML.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to describe the purpose of a link from the context provided by its heading context. The preceding heading provides context for an otherwise unclear link. The description lets a user distinguish this link from links in the web page that lead to other destinations and helps the user determine whether to follow the link.

Note

Whenever possible, provide link text that identifies the purpose of the link without needing additional context.

## Examples

### Example 1: Blocks of information on hotels

The information for each hotel consists of the hotel name, a description and a series of links to a map, photos, directions, guest reviews and a booking form.

```html
<h2><a href="royal_palm_hotel.html" id="royal-heading">Royal Palm Hotel</a></h2>
<nav aria-labelledby="royal-heading">
  <ul>
    <li><a href="royal-palm-hotel_map.html">Map</a></li>
    <li><a href="royal-palm-hotel-photos.html">Photos</a></li>
    <li><a href="hroyal-palm-hotel-directions.html">Directions</a></li>
    <li><a href="royal-palm-hotel-reviews.html">Guest reviews</a></li>
    <li><a href="royal-palm-hotel-book.html">Book now</a></li>
  </ul>
</nav>	

<h2><a href="hotel-three-rivers.html" id="rivers-heading">Hotel Three Rivers</a></h2>
<nav aria-labelledby="rivers-heading">
  <ul>
    <li><a href="hotel-three-rivers-map.html">Map</a></li>
    <li><a href="hotel-three-rivers-photos.html">Photos</a></li>
    <li><a href="hotel-three-rivers-directions.html">Directions</a></li>
    <li><a href="hotel-three-rivers-reviews.html">Guest reviews</a></li>
    <li><a href="hotel-three-rivers-book.html">Book now</a></li>
  </ul>
</nav>
```

### Example 2: A document provided in three formats

```html
<h2>Annual Report 2006-2007</h2>
<p> 
  <a href="annual-report-0607.html">HTML</a>
  <a href="annual-report-0607.pdf">PDF</a>
  <a href="annual-report-0607.rtf">RTF</a>
</p>
```

### Example 3: Newspaper website

```html
<div class="card-link">
   <h2><a href="market-2023-09-27.html">Stock market soars as bullishness prevails</a></h2>
   <p>This week was a stellar week for the stock market as investing in gold rose 2%.</p>
</div>
```

A script is used to find each element with a class of card-link and append an additional paragraph with a "Read more" link at the end of the div with the class .card-link that goes to the same location as the link in the heading.

## Related Techniques

* [G91: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link](../general/G91)
* [G53: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with the text of the enclosing sentence](../general/G53)
* [H33: Supplementing link text with the title attribute](../html/H33)
* [C7: Using CSS to hide a portion of the link text](../css/C7)
* [H77: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with its enclosing list item](../html/H77)
* [H78: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with its enclosing paragraph](../html/H78)
* [H79: Identifying the purpose of a link in a data table using the link text combined with its enclosing table cell and associated table header cells](../html/H79)
* [H81: Identifying the purpose of a link in a nested list using link text combined with the parent list item under which the list is nested](../html/H81)

## Tests

### Procedure

For each link in the content that uses this technique:

1. Find the heading element that precedes the link
2. Check that the text of the link combined with the text of that heading describes the purpose of the link.

### Expected Results

* #2 is true.
