# Technique H83: Using the target attribute to open a new window on user request and indicating this in link text

## About this Technique

This technique relates to [3.2.5: Change on Request](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/change-on-request) (Sufficient when used for including pop-up windows).

This technique applies to HTML.

## Description

The objective of this technique is to avoid confusion that may be caused by the appearance of new windows that were not requested by the user. Suddenly opening new windows can disorient users or be missed completely by some. In HTML, the target attribute can be used to open a new window.

Use of the target attribute provides an unambiguously machine-readable indication that a new window will open. User agents can inform the user, and can also be configured not to open the new window. For those not using assistive technology, the indication would also be available from the link text.

Note

Note that not using the target allows the user to decide whether a new window should be opened or not.

## Examples

### Example 1: Using the target attribute in a link to indicate it will open in a new window

```html
<a href="help.html" target="_blank">Show Help (opens new window)</a>
```

## Related Resources

No endorsement implied.

* [HTML - target attribute](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/links.html#attr-hyperlink-target).

## Related Techniques

* [SCR24: Using progressive enhancement to open new windows on user request](../client-side-script/SCR24)

## Tests

### Procedure

1. Activate each link in the document to check if it opens a new window.
2. For each link that opens a new window, check that it uses the target attribute.
3. Check that the link text contains information indicating that the link will open in a new window.

### Expected Results

* Checks #2 and #3 are true.
